[Add] Harness, Scaffold, and the AI Agent Terms Worth Getting Right (#3390)
huggingface/blog: agent-glossary.md

## Context Engineering

Designing what goes into the agent's context window: what the model sees at each step, system prompt, tool descriptions, conversation history, retrieved knowledge. It's not a one-time decision: as the model runs, previous turns shape what goes into future calls, and the harness actively manages this throughout the run. It applies at both training and inference, but the cost of getting it wrong is very different. At training, what the model sees shapes what gets learned. Get it wrong and you're retraining. At inference, it's just text: change a prompt and redeploy. The [HF Context Engineering Course](https://huggingface.co/learn/context-course/en/unit0/introduction) covers this in depth.

Memory is part of this picture. **Short-term memory** is what stays in the context window during a single run: conversation history, tool results, previous reasoning. **Long-term memory** persists across sessions, stored externally and retrieved on demand, then injected back into context when relevant.

## Policy

> A policy is the behavior a model has learned: given any situation, it defines the probability of taking each possible action. The model weights encode this behavior, but the policy is what those weights produce, not the weights themselves. A policy is not an agent. Wrap a checkpoint in scaffolding and a harness and deploy it, and you get an agent.

Reviewer: I think here this should be "agent", and not "model":

```suggestion
A policy is the behavior an agent follows: given any situation, it defines the probability of taking each possible action. In LLM systems, part of that policy is learned in the model weights, but the behavior also depends on the surrounding scaffolding and harness. The same model can behave very differently depending on its prompts, tools, memory, and execution loop.
A policy is not an agent. The policy defines behavior; the agent is the full system that acts in an environment. Wrap a checkpoint in scaffolding and a harness and deploy it, and you get an agent whose behavior is the policy.
```

We recently published a dedicated guide on this, so rather than compress it here, see [The Ultimate Guide to RL Environments](https://huggingface.co/spaces/AdithyaSK/rl-environments-guide) for a complete breakdown of types, frameworks, and examples.

### Trainer

The trainer is what makes the agent better: it runs many agent episodes, scores the results and uses them to update the inner model's weights. [TRL's GRPOTrainer](https://huggingface.co/docs/trl/main/en/openenv) is a concrete example: a single class that handles episode generation, reward scoring, and weight updates.

### Rollout

A rollout is one full agent run from start to finish: what the agent saw, what it did, and what reward it got at each step. It's also called a *trajectory* or a *trace*, depending on the context. This is the raw data RL algorithms learn from.

### Reward

> The score that tells the training algorithm whether the model is getting better. It can be *verifiable* (tests pass/fail, answer matches), *learned* (human preferences, LLM-as-judge), *sparse* (one score at the end of an episode), or *dense* (a score at each step). This is what the trainer uses to actually update the inner model's weights. For a thorough breakdown of each type, see the [Reward Architecture](https://huggingface.co/spaces/AdithyaSK/rl-environments-guide#dimension-4-reward-architecture) section in Adithya's guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The score that tells the training algorithm whether the model is getting better. It can be *verifiable* (tests pass/fail, answer matches), or *learned* (human preferences, LLM-as-judge), *sparse* (one score at the end of an episode), or *dense* (a score at each step). This is what the trainer uses to actually update the inner model's weights. For a thorough breakdown of each type, see the [Reward Architecture](https://huggingface.co/spaces/AdithyaSK/rl-environments-guide#dimension-4-reward-architecture) section in [Adithya](https://huggingface.co/AdithyaSK)'s guide.
```

Reviewer: it's clearer that it's not one of these four, but either verifiable/learned and sparse/dense

- [Tool Schema Rendering Atlas](https://huggingface.co/spaces/evalstate/tool-research) (evalstate): how tool schemas become prompt text across models, showing what each model actually sees after provider templates are applied
- [Simon Willison's How coding agents work blog](https://simonwillison.net/guides/agentic-engineering-patterns/how-coding-agents-work/): how a coding agent works as a harness
- [AI Engineer talks like Harnesses in AI: A Deep Dive](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C_GG5g38vLU): what a harness is and how to build one.
- [The Ultimate Guide to RL Environments](https://huggingface.co/spaces/AdithyaSK/rl-environments-guide): framework-by-framework comparison and vocabulary translation
- [Continually improving our agent harness](https://cursor.com/blog/continually-improving-agent-harness): how Cursor iterates on its harness as a product.
- [lm-evaluation-harness](https://github.com/EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness): the canonical eval harness

*If any definition feels imprecise or you've encountered a term we've missed, we'd love to hear from you.*

> *Thanks to Pedro Cuenca, Quentin Gallouédec, Shaun Smith, and Adithya S Kolavi for reviewing this post.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Thanks to [Pedro Cuenca](https://huggingface.co/pcuenq), [Quentin Gallouédec](https://huggingface.co/qgallouedec), [Shaun Smith](https://huggingface.co/evalstate), and [Adithya S Kolavi](https://huggingface.co/AdithyaSK) for reviewing this post.*
```
